UPOD Progress Report


Overview

The Undergraduate Online Physics Database is an online repository of data designed for students to access physics information, 
equations and diagrams to help aid them in furthering their educations in their university careers. 
The information on UPOD added, edited and removed by moderators and administrators that are approved to do so. 
This is given with the assumption that moderator are Teaching Assistants and administrators are Professors.  
This report will give a short summary of what was complete, when it was completed and what still needs to be finished.


Software Project Management Plan (SPMP)

The software project management plan is document which outlines, at its core, budget, staffing and the project schedule. 
It outlines what the project it to accomplish, each sections of the project, and budget, staffing and the schedule for each project section. 
The SPMP, and its corresponding SQA, was completed on time, on September 27th, 
with minor changes done through the project development as certain, elements were added, edited or removed entirely.


Requirements Document

The requirements document is a document which outlines what the UPOD is capable of doing, in terms of functionality and design. 
How it functions, how methods function and other such information that outlines the structure of UPOD. 
The requirements document, and its corresponding SQA, was completed on time, 
with minor changes done through the project development as certain, elements were added, edited or removed entirely.


Analysis Document

The analysis document is a document that provides an in-depth analysis of the project beyond the initial requirements phase. 
It acts as a basis for the design document as well as for the project. 
The class, use case, and sequence diagrams are used in conjunction with object-oriented design to establish a starting point 
for project implementation. This document and its corresponding SQA, was completed on time, on September 27th, 
with minor changes done through the project development as certain, elements were added, edited or removed entirely.


Design Document

The design document is a document that explains the projects design and setup of the UPOD application. 
This document and its corresponding SQA, was completed on time, with minor changes done through the project development as certain, 
elements were added, edited or removed entirely.


Implementation

The actual implementation of the project was divided into two sections- front and back end with about half of the group 
belonging to each. The front-end was responsible for the design and programming of the user interface using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
The back-end involved storing data in a database using JDBC, and manipulating data using Java.


Completion
The project was not completed as originally intended, however we did get many things working and working quite well. The front-end
HTML pages are complete, while the underlying JavaScript used to make these pages interactive was close to completion (as seen
on the edit page). The JSON was also close to working. The back-end managed to get a lot of their stuff complete (such as the 
search, page storage, retrieval and deletion) but not enough to fully interact with the front end. Essentially there are lots of 
working or almost working parts, we just weren't quite able to put it all together.


Challenges we faced

We had trouble getting all the group members together with our varying schedules. There were also issues with getting the JSON to
communicate with the data in the back-end. There were also issues with getting the front-end HTML working with all browsers, for
example, it seemed like FireFox rendered the top search bar beside the body rather than above it, on every page that had it in
the header.


How we could improve

As the project went on certain individuals emerged as being more experienced with certain aspects (such as HTML and JavaScript). It
might have been helpful to assign these people as leaders earlier on in the cycle so they could better dictate just exactly how 
we would do things, rather than the laissez-faire style employed in the early stages.

